[blog] Receive any custom metric with the OpenTelemetry Collector (#3600)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry.io: content/en/blog/2023/any-metric-receiver.md

---

If you're a frequent user of OpenTelemetry (OTel) or have read the
[Observability Primer](/docs/concepts/observability-primer/), you'll be well
aware of how instrumental OpenTelemetry is _to easily troubleshoot and handle
novel problems (i.e. “unknown unknowns”)_. However, there may be times when you
need to address the familiar, mundane aspects, such as monitoring system
metrics, or setting up alerts to draw your attention to potential issues. These
metrics could range from host metrics like disk usage, server availability, or
even the expiration date of your SSL certificates.

The beauty of a solution like OpenTelemetry is that it doesn't just help with
the _"unknown"_, but can also streamline the management of the _"known"_. This
can be achieved by utilizing any one of the
[90+ receivers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver)
available for the [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector), such as the
[Host Metrics Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver)

> or the [HTTP Check Receiver](/blog/2023/synthetic-testing/).

Reviewer: To get faster to the "custom metrics" topic I feel like these two paragraphs could be somehow reduced to one.

Author: Yeah, they got a lot longer than planned, let me see what I can do.

Author: fixed

[StatsD](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/statsdreceiver),
[InfluxDB](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/influxdbreceiver),
[Prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver)
and even
[SNMP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/snmpreceiver)—and
integrating them into the OpenTelemetry ecosystem. With minor tweaks to your
shell scripts, you can use one of these receivers to achieve your objective. For
instance, the Carbon Receiver, with its simple
[plaintext protocol](https://graphite.readthedocs.io/en/stable/feeding-carbon.html#the-plaintext-protocol),
is ideal for use with shell scripts. Its protocol is incredibly straightforward:

> The plaintext protocol is the most straightforward protocol supported by
> Carbon. The data sent must be in the following format:
> `<metric path> <metric value> <metric timestamp>`.

## Example script: Check certificate expiration

> Consider the shell script below, which accepts a host name as an argument, and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider the following shell script, which accepts a host name as an argument, and
```

receivers:
  carbon:
    endpoint: localhost:8080
    transport: tcp
    parser:
      type: plaintext
      config:

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [carbon]
      exporters: [debug]
```

For instance, if you've saved this file as `collector-config.yml`, execute the
following command:

```shell
$ ./otelcol --config collector-config.yml
2023-11-24T12:52:51.340+0100	info	service@v0.89.0/telemetry.go:85	Setting up own telemetry...
2023-11-24T12:52:51.341+0100	info	service@v0.89.0/telemetry.go:202	Serving Prometheus metrics	{"address": ":8888", "level": "Basic"}
2023-11-24T12:52:51.341+0100	info	exporter@v0.89.0/exporter.go:275	Development component. May change in the future.	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
2023-11-24T12:52:51.341+0100	info	service@v0.89.0/service.go:143	Starting otelcol-any-metric...	{"Version": "1.0.0", "NumCPU": 10}
2023-11-24T12:52:51.341+0100	info	extensions/extensions.go:34	Starting extensions...
2023-11-24T12:52:51.342+0100	info	service@v0.89.0/service.go:169	Everything is ready. Begin running and processing data.
```

{{% alert title="Note" color="secondary" %}}

> For testing, you can utilize the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For testing, you can use the
```

[OpenTelemetry Collector Contrib](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-releases/tree/main/distributions/otelcol-contrib)

> distribution, which includes all available receivers. However, in a production
> setting, it's recommended to
> [construct your own Collector](/docs/collector/custom-collector/) using the
> OpenTelemetry Collector Builder
> ([`ocb`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/cmd/builder)).
> Here's a suggested configuration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
distribution, which includes all available receivers. However, in a production
setting, you can
[construct your own Collector](/docs/collector/custom-collector/) using the
OpenTelemetry Collector Builder
([`ocb`](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/cmd/builder)).
Here's a suggested configuration:
```

      v0.89.0

receivers:
  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/receiver/otlpreceiver v0.89.0
  - gomod:
      github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/carbonreceiver
      v0.89.0
```

{{% /alert %}}

With the OpenTelemetry Collector operational, open a secondary shell and
transmit your metric to it:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io | nc 127.0.0.1 8080
```

The
[Debug Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/debugexporter)
will display the metric on the console for you:

```log
2023-11-24T12:54:51.369+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit:
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> unit: Str(s)
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 11:54:51 +0000 UTC
Value: 4356471
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

That's it! You can implement the same technique with any other shell script you
have that reports custom metrics.

> ## Fine Tuning with the Transform Processor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Fine tuning with the Transform processor
```

As all other headings are using sentence case

Author: ```suggestion
## Fine tuning with the Transform Processor
```

Will apply the Tuning to tuning, but I use Transform Processor in uppercase since this is also how it is used throughout the text and in the collector repos.

While this approach is straightforward, it has a limitation: it only allows you
to specify a metric name (`tls.server.not_after.time_left`) and data point

> attributes (`unit: Str(s)`). It does not allow you to set additional details,

Reviewer: Why would this be a limitation? Can we elaborate?

Author: Let me add a few words, yes.

like a [resource](/docs/concepts/resources/), a metric description, or
particularly, a metric unit.

> However, a versatile tool exists that can assist you with this: the
> [Transform Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/transformprocessor)!
> By incorporating OpenTelemetry Transformation Language (OTTL) statements into
> your `collector-config.yml`, you can convert the data point attribute `unit`
> into the metric's unit:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, the
[Transform Processor](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/processor/transformprocessor)
can help you with this.
By incorporating OpenTelemetry Transformation Language (OTTL) statements into
your `collector-config.yml`, you can convert the data point attribute `unit`
into the metric's unit:
```

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
      grpc:
exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [debug]
```

Execute your updated `ssl_check.sh`:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io
```

This time, your metric will be presented with the correct unit set and the
resource reported as defined in your JSON:

```shell
2023-11-24T15:28:51.212+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
Resource attributes:
     -> service.name: Str(opentelemetry.io)
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit: s
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 14:28:51 +0000 UTC
Value: 4347231
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

Working with JSON in shell scripts isn't particularly desirable, as this example
clearly demonstrates! While there are methods for improvement, you may
ultimately find it more efficient to use a language such as Python or Node.js,

> or incorporate metrics (with gauge support) into your preferred OTel CLI tool!

Reviewer: It'd be nice to end with a recap of the different methods / approaches you've shown and perhaps some considerations on when/how to best use them.

Author: done

[Prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver),
and even
[SNMP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/snmpreceiver)—and
integrating them into the OpenTelemetry ecosystem. With minor tweaks to your
shell scripts, you can use one of these receivers to achieve your objective. For
instance, the Carbon Receiver, with its simple
[plaintext protocol](https://graphite.readthedocs.io/en/stable/feeding-carbon.html#the-plaintext-protocol),
is ideal for use with shell scripts. Its protocol is incredibly straightforward:

> The plaintext protocol is the most straightforward protocol supported by
> Carbon. The data sent must be in the following format:
> `<metric path> <metric value> <metric timestamp>`.

## Example script: Check certificate expiration

Consider the following shell script, which accepts a host name as an argument,
and uses
[`openssl s_client`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man1/openssl-s_client.html)
to retrieve the certificate and compute the remaining time until certificate
expiration:

```shell
#!/bin/bash
URL=${1}
PORT=${2:-443}

now=$(date +%s)

> str=$(echo q | openssl s_client -servername "${URL}" "${URL}:${PORT}" 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -enddate | awk -F"=" '{ print $2; }')

Author: ```suggestion
str=$(echo q | openssl s_client -servername "${HOST}" "${HOST}:${PORT}" 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -enddate | awk -F"=" '{ print $2; }')
```

notAfter=$(date -d "${str}" +%s)

secondsLeft=$(($notAfter-$now))

echo ${secondsLeft}
```

You can test this script as follows:

```shell
$ ./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io
4357523
```

## Use Carbon's plaintext protocol

To adapt this script to use Carbon's plaintext protocol, you'll need to modify
the script's last few lines to output a metric in Carbon format:

```shell {hl_lines=[12]}
#!/bin/bash

> URL=${1}

Author: ```suggestion
HOST=${1}
```

---
title: Receive any custom metric with the OpenTelemetry Collector
linkTitle: Any Metric Receiver
date: 2023-11-28

> author: '[Severinq Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Cisco'

Author: ```suggestion
author: '[Severin Neumann](https://github.com/svrnm), Cisco'
```

# prettier-ignore

> cspell:ignore: openssl servername noout enddate gomod debugexporter otlpexporter otlphttpexporter transformprocessor otlpreceiver carbonreceiver ottl datapoint webserver Helmuth

Reviewer 2: We should add OTTL to the textlinter rules. WDYT?

Author: yes! Let's maybe do a new round of reviewing the ignore lists and see which ones we want to add

---

While OpenTelemetry (OTel) is here to help you with troubleshooting and handling
the _"unknown unknowns"_, it is also instrumental for managing route tasks like
monitoring system metrics, like disk usage, server availability or SSL
certificate expiration dates. This can be achieved by utilizing any one of the
[90+ receivers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver)
available for the [OpenTelemetry Collector](/docs/collector), such as the
[Host Metrics Receiver](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/hostmetricsreceiver)
or the [HTTP Check Receiver](/blog/2023/synthetic-testing/).

But what if the available receivers don't meet your specific needs? Suppose you
have a collection of shell scripts that provide custom metrics, and you want to

> export these to the OpenTelemetry Collector. You could write your own receiver,
> but this would require proficiency in Go programming language and potentially
> converting your scripts to Go.

Reviewer 2: Either "in Go" or "in the Go programming language". Given our audience, I'd vote for the former, and even shorten it to the following:

```suggestion
export these to the OpenTelemetry Collector. You could write your own receiver,
but this would require proficiency in Go.
```

Before embarking on this path, consider examining the available receivers more
closely: Some of them are capable of assimilating metrics in different
formats—like
[Carbon](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/carbonreceiver),
[StatsD](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/statsdreceiver),
[InfluxDB](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/influxdbreceiver),

> [Prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Prometheus](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/prometheusreceiver),
```

and even
[SNMP](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/snmpreceiver)—and
integrating them into the OpenTelemetry ecosystem. With minor tweaks to your
shell scripts, you can use one of these receivers to achieve your objective. For
instance, the Carbon Receiver, with its simple
[plaintext protocol](https://graphite.readthedocs.io/en/stable/feeding-carbon.html#the-plaintext-protocol),
is ideal for use with shell scripts. Its protocol is incredibly straightforward:

> The plaintext protocol is the most straightforward protocol supported by
> Carbon. The data sent must be in the following format:
> `<metric path> <metric value> <metric timestamp>`.

## Example script: Check certificate expiration

Consider the following shell script, which accepts a host name as an argument,
and uses
[`openssl s_client`](https://www.openssl.org/docs/manmaster/man1/openssl-s_client.html)
to retrieve the certificate and compute the remaining time until certificate
expiration:

```shell
#!/bin/bash

> URL=${1}

Reviewer 2: How about using `HOST` rather than `URL` for the host name (here and elsewhere)?

```suggestion
HOST=${1}
```

PORT=${2:-443}

now=$(date +%s)
str=$(echo q | openssl s_client -servername "${URL}" "${URL}:${PORT}" 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -enddate | awk -F"=" '{ print $2; }')
notAfter=$(date -d "${str}" +%s)

secondsLeft=$(($notAfter-$now))

echo ${secondsLeft}
```

You can test this script as follows:

```shell
$ ./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io

> 4357523

Reviewer 2: Does this run as is under macOS for you?

Author: `awk` on MacOS behaves different, let me check if I can tweak the script to run without it (I use `gawk` and `gdate` as replacements locally and tend to forget about those MacOS quirks

Reviewer 2: Thanks!

Author: Ah... problem is actually `date` since it does not have the `-d`

Reviewer 2: Do you have a solution?

Author: Besides using a "proper" date implementation? Not yet ...

Author: fixed

```

## Use Carbon's plaintext protocol

To adapt this script to use Carbon's plaintext protocol, you'll need to modify
the script's last few lines to output a metric in Carbon format:

```shell {hl_lines=[12]}
#!/bin/bash
URL=${1}
PORT=${2:-443}

now=$(date +%s)
str=$(echo q | openssl s_client -servername "${URL}" "${URL}:${PORT}" 2>/dev/null | openssl x509 -noout -enddate | awk -F"=" '{ print $2; }')
notAfter=$(date -d "${str}" +%s)

secondsLeft=$(($notAfter-$now))

> metricName="tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s"
> echo "${metricName} ${secondsLeft} ${now}"

Reviewer 2: Maybe name the variable `metricPath` instead?

```suggestion
metricPath="tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s"
echo "${metricPath} ${secondsLeft} ${now}"
```

```

> In doing so, the script will set the `metric path` to
> `tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s`, the `metric value` to `${secondsLeft}`,
> and the `metric timestamp` to `${now}`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In doing so, the script will output `<metric path>` as
`tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s`, the `<metric value>` as `${secondsLeft}`,
and the `<metric timestamp>` as `${now}`.
```

  - gomod: go.opentelemetry.io/collector/receiver/otlpreceiver v0.89.0
  - gomod:
      github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/receiver/carbonreceiver
      v0.89.0
```

{{% /alert %}}

With the OpenTelemetry Collector operational, open a secondary shell and
transmit your metric to it:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io | nc 127.0.0.1 8080
```

The
[Debug Exporter](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector/tree/main/exporter/debugexporter)
will display the metric on the console for you:

```log
2023-11-24T12:54:51.369+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit:
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> unit: Str(s)
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 11:54:51 +0000 UTC
Value: 4356471
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

That's it! You can implement the same technique with any other shell script you
have that reports custom metrics.

## Fine tuning with the Transform Processor

> The Carbon Receiver split the `metric path` and `;` as a delimiter to extract

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Carbon Receiver split the `<metric path>` using `;` as a delimiter to extract
```

    transport: tcp
    parser:
      type: plaintext
      config:

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed

processors:
  transform:
    metric_statements:
      - context: datapoint
        statements:
          - set(metric.unit, attributes["unit"])
          - delete_key(attributes, "unit")
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [carbon]
      processors: [transform]
      exporters: [debug]
```

Execute the `ssl_check.sh` once more:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io | nc 127.0.0.1 8080
```

Now, the Debug Exporter will also incorporate the unit into the metric
descriptor:

```text {hl_lines=[10]}
2023-11-24T12:54:51.369+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit: s
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
Data point attributes:
     -> unit: Str(s)
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 11:54:51 +0000 UTC
Value: 4356471
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

If you wish to associate your metric with a

> [service](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) that you've instrumented with

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[service](/docs/specs/semconv/resource/#service) that you've instrumented using
```

> OpenTelemetry, you can initially add them to your shell script as attributes:

Reviewer 2: "add them" ... what are the "them"?

Author: ```suggestion
OpenTelemetry, you can initially add `service.name` and `service.namespace` to your shell script as data point attributes:
```

        statements:
          - set(metric.unit, attributes["unit"])
          - set(resource.attributes["service.name"], attributes["service.name"])
          - set(resource.attributes["service.namespace"],
            attributes["service.namespace"])
          - delete_key(attributes, "unit")
          - delete_key(attributes, "service.name")
          - delete_key(attributes, "service.namespace")
```

Run the `ssl_check.sh` once again:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io | nc 127.0.0.1 8080
```

Now, the Debug Exporter will also include the resource with attributes
`service.name` and `service.namespace`:

```text
2023-11-24T14:49:03.806+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
Resource attributes:
     -> service.name: Str(otel-webserver)
     -> service.namespace: Str(opentelemetry.io)
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit: s
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 13:49:03 +0000 UTC
Value: 4349619
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

> The Transform Processor and OTTL offer a wide range of capabilities. You can
> learn more by reviewing the
> [OTTL README.md](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/README.md)
> and watching the talk
> [OTTL Me Why Transforming Telemetry in the OpenTelemetry Collector Just Got Better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uVs0oUV72CE)
> by [Tyler Helmuth](https://github.com/TylerHelmuth) and
> [Evan Bradley](https://github.com/evan-bradley). With this you are ready to
> receive any custom metric with the OpenTelemetry Collector!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Transform Processor and OTTL offer a wide range of capabilities. Learn more from:

- [OTTL README.md](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/blob/main/pkg/ottl/README.md)
- [OTTL Me Why Transforming Telemetry in the OpenTelemetry Collector Just Got
  Better](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uVs0oUV72CE), a talk by
  [Tyler Helmuth](https://github.com/TylerHelmuth) and [Evan
  Bradley](https://github.com/evan-bradley)

With this, you are ready to receive any custom metric with the OpenTelemetry
Collector!
```

## Bonus: Use OTLP!

While the use of the Carbon Receiver and the Transform Processor is a dependable
method to gather custom metrics, it may seem unconventional to use an external
format to import metrics into OpenTelemetry, especially when the

> [OpenTelemetry Protocol](/docs/specs/otlp/) (OTLP) provides everything you need!
> 
> So, as an alternative to using the Carbon Receiver, you can also transmit a
> custom metric using
> [OTLP JSON](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/tree/main/examples):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[OpenTelemetry Protocol](/docs/specs/otlp/) (OTLP) provides everything you need.

As an alternative to using the Carbon Receiver, you can also transmit a
custom metrics using
[OTLP JSON](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-proto/tree/main/examples):
```

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: Since it _is_ a bash script :)

```suggestion
```bash
```

Reviewer 2: If you agree, change here and elsewhere.

                \"stringValue\": \"${URL}\"
              }
            }
          ]
        },
        \"scopeMetrics\": [
          {
            \"metrics\": [
              {
                \"name\": \"tls.server.not_after.time_left\",
                \"unit\": \"s\",
                \"description\": \"\",
                \"gauge\": {
                  \"dataPoints\": [
                    {
                      \"asInt\": ${secondsLeft},
                      \"timeUnixNano\": ${now}000000000
                    }
                  ]
                }
              }
            ]
          }
        ]
      }
    ]
  }
"
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -d "${data}" -i localhost:4318/v1/metrics
```

Activate the OTLP Receiver in your `collectors-config`:

```yaml
receivers:
  otlp:
    protocols:
      http:
      grpc:
exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed
service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [otlp]
      exporters: [debug]
```

Execute your updated `ssl_check.sh`:

```shell
./ssl_check.sh opentelemetry.io
```

This time, your metric will be presented with the correct unit set and the
resource reported as defined in your JSON:

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this isn't `shell` code, so maybe leave blank or find another better lang?

~~~suggestion
```
~~~

2023-11-24T15:28:51.212+0100	info	ResourceMetrics #0
Resource SchemaURL:
Resource attributes:
     -> service.name: Str(opentelemetry.io)
ScopeMetrics #0
ScopeMetrics SchemaURL:
InstrumentationScope
Metric #0
Descriptor:
     -> Name: tls.server.not_after.time_left
     -> Description:
     -> Unit: s
     -> DataType: Gauge
NumberDataPoints #0
StartTimestamp: 1970-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Timestamp: 2023-11-24 14:28:51 +0000 UTC
Value: 4347231
	{"kind": "exporter", "data_type": "metrics", "name": "debug"}
```

Working with JSON in shell scripts isn't particularly desirable, as this example
clearly demonstrates! While there are methods for improvement, you may
ultimately find it more efficient to use a language such as Python or Node.js,
or incorporate metrics (with gauge support) into your preferred OTel CLI tool!

## Summary

> In this blog post you learned how you can use a _catch-all_ receiver like the
> Carbon Receiver to feed any metric into your OpenTelemetry Collector. This
> approach is recommended, if none of the available receivers meets your needs,
> and if writing your own receiver is to time consuming to accomplish your goal,
> because you are not familiar with Go or you don't have the bandwidth to rewrite
> your existing solution (a shell script) to Go.

Reviewer 2: "to" --> "too" ... but instead, how about:

```suggestion
In this post you learned how to use a _catch-all_ receiver like the
Carbon Receiver to feed any metric into your OpenTelemetry Collector.
Use this approach when none of the available receivers meet your needs and you don't want to write your won receiver in Go.
```

I.e., I'd avoid saying that "it's recommended"? WDYT

> As outlook, you learned about the possibility to send your metrics to the
> OpenTelemetry Collector directly using OTLP and `curl`. This approach is
> recommended, if you can not modify the pipelines of your OpenTelemetry
> collector. It will also become a valid alternative to _catch-all_ receivers with
> the availability of command line tools that export metrics via OTLP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You learned how to send your metrics to the
OpenTelemetry Collector directly using OTLP and `curl`. Use this approach when you cannot modify the pipelines of your OpenTelemetry
collector. It will also become a valid alternative to _catch-all_ receivers with
the availability of command line tools that export metrics via OTLP.
```

if [[ "$(uname)" == "Darwin" ]] ; then
  notAfter=$(date -j -f "%b %d %H:%M:%S %Y %Z" "${notAfterString}" +%s)
else
  notAfter=$(date -d "${notAfterString}" +%s)
fi

secondsLeft=$(($notAfter-$now))

metricPath="tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s"
echo "${metricPath} ${secondsLeft} ${now}"
```

In doing so, the script will output `<metric path>` as
`tls.server.not_after.time_left;unit=s`, the `<metric value>` as
`${secondsLeft}`, and the `<metric timestamp>` as `${now}`.

That's all we need to do to send our metric to the OpenTelemetry Collector with
the Carbon Receiver enabled.

## Receive any metric with the OTel Collector

To test this, initiate an OpenTelemetry Collector using the following
configuration::

```yaml
receivers:
  carbon:
    endpoint: localhost:8080
    transport: tcp
    parser:
      type: plaintext
      config:

exporters:
  debug:
    verbosity: detailed

service:
  pipelines:
    metrics:
      receivers: [carbon]
      exporters: [debug]
```

For instance, if you've saved this file as `collector-config.yml`, execute the
following command:

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```console
```
